two of us want to just make a commitment
to
eat like mostly plant-based and
not to put any kind of huge restriction
and pressure on ourselves
me mainly because i just i don't like
saying never again
we're not going completely plant-based
as you all might know
my husband has been vegetarian for how
many years
uh since i was 17 so
that's nearly 13 years oh my god
i was vegetarian in the past and after
that i
was well i said vegan at the time but i
was just eating a plant-based diet
really thinking hard on the dairy
industry
i don't have the same feelings
personally
about the idea of eating animals as i do
with the dairy production because
and this is all like quite a recent
change in my in my feelings and people
change obviously and their
understanding of things grows and shifts
through our life
but we are the only species on the
planet who
artificially inseminates another species
and separates them from their young so
that we can take their milk and
have them hooked up to machines all day
and have them constantly pregnant like
it's it's
and i was like wow you know what's paleo
and it's basically involves eating meat
and things like that but he's very much
also into ethical omnivorism
ethical omnivores
well for me he started off as a
healthcare and waiting
thing to watch
since i've been eating the food that i
want to eat
um i just feel better
i love that song um
[Music]
it's like a circle everything
[Applause]
every population
[Music]
anyone else find this hard to follow
milk is
is a is an amazing thing and i have a
newfound appreciation for milk because i
make milk for my son so it's just this
whole thing and i'm not trying at all to
make anyone guilt feel guilty or to for
use to change your habits
and i'm just sharing i'm just sharing yo
what up
life is not fair people and um as you
get older
you figure out what the inequalities are
and just how arbitrary
and irrational they are i think it takes
some people many many years
to get used to the fact that human
beauty
is distributed unequally seemingly at
random
but arbitrarily um and not everyone gets
a shake at the stick it's very common of
course to meet children who are upset
about that who are uncomfortable with
that
teenagers and then at different ages and
different stages of life
people finally get comfortable with the
fact that look you know
uh not everyone is pretty enough to be a
model not everyone is pretty enough
to be an anchorman who reads the news
and at some
stage and at some age we also have to
get used to
the profound and radical inequalities in
intelligence
in the immaterial and intangible aspects
of life
it's as if you know once you get to the
stage in life where you're finally
comfortable
with the physical inequalities we all
got to live with
are you yet comfortable with the type of
immaterial mental inequalities that
we've all got to live with
um this girl melanie
melanie murphy from ireland
i don't resent the fact that she's
managed to build
a career on youtube out of a somewhat
vacant
stare and no apparent talent
and a real deficit of intelligence so
far as i can measure such a thing
um i haven't heard intelligent word out
of her mouth
and i've heard a lot of a lot of stupid
things out of her mouth so far
um i'm not gonna say the world is a
terrible place
because someone like her can get a
certain measure of uh
fame out of i don't know just filming
herself
putting on her makeup what does she do
she answers completely inane
q a sessions from her viewers i mean
what
there's no substance to it but does that
make the world a worse place or a better
place i don't know in some ways can't we
say
the world is a wonderful place that
someone like her can earn a living
by doing nothing i don't know
is it is it wonderful or is it terrible
it's banal um
it's meaningless it's uh it's a
resoundingly hollow aspect of our
culture in the 21st century
um and you know
you get to watch people like her swim up
to their limits in the deep end of the
pool
and get scared and then swim back again
our diet up until quite recently has
been
heavy on cream which we were having
in coffees every day i was having it
with strawberries i was putting it in my
porridge
and butter i would have butter on toast
and most days and
we both love our cheese when the day
comes that we finally have our own house
if we have the room and we really want
to get it and we really want to get a
few chickens
and um and just have them there because
it's brilliant you know
you just you get to see where your eggs
are coming from and they're really happy
and yeah it's really nice yeah melanie
murphy
ain't got what it takes and we've all
learned that
and now we've all heard her pathetic and
incoherent excuses and
so on and so forth because i felt like
my social life has
always revolved around food i love
cooking i love sourcing ingredients i
love eating out with my friends and
family
and i found it i found it very difficult
to enjoy
my life to the fullest extent when i was
limiting myself um i
i just it i struggled with it and i can
admit that i found it very difficult
and i used to salivate over meat um
raw steak used to disgust me and when i
was
not eating any meat i would see it and i
would dribble then i met a friend of
mine called paul keely
and he has a degree in nutrition and
stuff like that and
he had undergone this massive
transformation like he looked like
the healthiest guy i've ever seen in my
life he looked amazing
and i was like what what are you doing
and he was eating mostly paleo with a
couple of days a week where he'd have
whatever he wants and i was like wow
you know what's paleo and it's basically
involves eating meat and things like
that i just
feel better better
and to quote an old song by the wu-tang
clan
by odb this ain't something new
that just came out of nowhere no
this is something old and dirty
this is a miserable ancient part of
human nature
you're gonna see again and again and
again
but anyway yeah i had watched those
videos but this video
showed up on a recommended section
called what i ate plant-based edition
food diary friday i had clicked on this
because it said plant-based edition in
the title i was like
oh maybe she's trying on a plant-based
diet again so i just thought that i
would like show you this clip
because i literally started laughing
when she said this
because of how [ __ ] idiotic it was
i've told you guys about this before i
kinda
tend to eat plant-based maybe for
like maybe three four days every week
don't you worry i
am still an ethical omnivore and i'm
very happy to be
uh
[Applause]
[Music]
ethical omnivore ethical omnivore
ethical omnivore
[Music]
omnivore
ethical omnivore
[Music]
and as long as we're doing this as long
as we're taking complete idiots and
putting them up on a pedestal
whether they're actors or athletes or
what have you
we're gonna see and hear this again and
again i couldn't make a list partly
because i'm not into celebrity culture
i could not make a list of how many you
know famous models and actresses have
already done this
where they're vegan for a while and they
talk about the ethics while they are
vegan
as if the ethics mattered and then the
minute
some excuse some reason pops into their
head
they stopped being vegan and suddenly
the ethics don't matter at all did they
ever
this is really a a portrait
of the self-selected obscurity
that the masses of humanity labor in
i mean god it's it's
you know this is really if you pay
attention it's hard to force yourself to
pay attention to what this girl has to
say
but if you really pay attention if you
made a flow chart
this is like a cross section of the
mediocre mind
and how it works oh you know when i
eat meat i feel better oh how is my
social life oh
making food is part of my social life
well being vegan
interferes with my social life so i feel
better when i eat meat
oh i met this one guy who was really
handsome
and he eats a paleo diet and he told me
that eating meat is good
i i do not want to hazard a guess
as to what percentage of the human race
think and act and live this way you know
these people roll around
the billiard table you know like balls
[Music]
if you happen to be the person who's an
influence on them this week or this
month
if you happen to be the person they're
impressed by maybe they'll become vegan
i don't know for how long a few weeks a
few months whatever and then it happens
again
you know like billiard balls clacking
around some other influence comes into
their life in this case she met someone
who was a paleo expert
that's apparently what happened with
bill clinton you know america's number
one bill
bimbo bill clinton
you are still vegan yes yeah except i
want to make full disclosure once a week
on the advice of my doctor
i try to eat some fish you know bill
clinton he met a vegan doctor that vegan
doctor influenced him for a while
he met a paleo doctor that paleo doctor
influenced him for a while
i don't know what's next some some
people told me bill's gone back to being
vegan
who knows but at some point you're at a
level of shallowness
um so terrifying
that these people are just barely
responsible
for their own actions and their
decisions in life
so look uh i moved two minds about this
i i don't think veganism should be for
an intellectual elite i don't
i think veganism should be for everybody
same with uh non-smoking
i think non-smoking is for everybody i
think complete idiots
should avoid becoming addicted to
tobacco i think geniuses should
avoid becoming addicted we should all
should all do it
but the peculiar challenges that exist
in 2016
challenges that require intelligence and
self-discipline
challenges of struggling in a world of
misinformation
information's hard to get uh right now
there are barriers to entry for veganism
that tend to prevent the stupidest and
the weakest among us
from becoming vegan and there are real
difficulties
in remaining vegan which is what melanie
murphy illustrates for us
it's it's not elitism on my part but
when you look at when you meet the
people who have what it takes to be
vegan
it's worthwhile to pause and think even
if you dislike them personally you may
dislike me personally that's fine
but when you look at me or any other
example you happen to meet or see online
you should recognize oh this is a person
even though i think they're dumb even i
think they're wrong even if i think
they're bad
they don't listen to the same music i
listen to they don't like the same
things i like
if that person has the intelligence and
self-discipline
to become vegan and to stay vegan
they're not all bad
maybe there's something good about them
maybe there's something you can learn
from them
and uh when you look at the ex-vegans
when you look at the people that drop
out
you've got to appreciate the opposite
you've got to stop and think
there's something missing and it's worth
understanding exactly what that is